The Bible is a wonderful book.
It’s a book
that we should just enjoy reading.
So for this talk, I thought I’d give
a couple of suggestions
for adding to our reading pleasure.
Here’s the first:
Don’t pass quickly over the details.
Stop and investigate,
and at times you’ll be very glad you did.
Now, let’s take an example.
You’re reading in the book of 1 Chronicles.
Now, there are
a lot of names in 1 Chronicles,
and you come across the name Heman.
If you are just interested
in covering material,
you’d probably pass over it
and go on to the next verse.
But you’re not in a rush,
and you notice
a cross reference beside the name.
It refers you to 1 Chronicles 6:33.
So you decide to investigate,
and in doing so,
you learn something
heartwarming about Jehovah.
Let’s do that.
At 1 Chronicles chapter 6
(I’ll give you a moment)
and verse 33,
it says:
“These are the men
who served with their sons:
“Of the Kohathites, Heman the singer,
son of Joel son of Samuel.”
So this Heman was Samuel’s grandson.
Now, what do we know
about his family’s situation?
Well, his father, Joel,
and his uncle, Abijah, were judges.
But they had a terrible reputation.
They’d rule in your favor
if you could pay enough.
But if you were poor, forget it.
And the whole country knew about it.
At one point, the Bible says
that “all the elders
of Israel . . . came to Samuel”
and said they didn’t want
Joel and Abijah as judges anymore.
They wanted a king;
Jehovah was furious.
And He couldn’t have been too happy
with Joel and Abijah either.
Now, can you imagine the effect
that this corruption had
on the reputation
of Heman’s family? the shame?
But like Hezekiah,
Heman didn’t allow
his father’s bad example to paralyze him.
Heman developed
his own personal relationship with Jehovah.
How do we know?
We followed a few clues.
We followed a few cross references,
and we came to 1 Chronicles 25:5.
Let’s do that.
First Chronicles 25:5
and, again, we’re trying to find
something more about Heman.
It says: “All of these were sons of Heman,
“a visionary of the king in matters
pertaining to the true God to his glory;
“thus the true God gave Heman
14 sons and 3 daughters.”
Did you see it?
“A visionary of the king.”
What was a visionary?
It was a kind of prophet.
Now, let’s see.
Samuel was a prophet,
and now Heman was a prophet.
Do you see what’s heartwarming?
Jehovah was dealing with Heman
in much the same way
that he had dealt with his grandfather.
Jehovah does not hold the sins
of the fathers against the sons.
That is something very,
very nice to remember.
And can you see where this example
would help some people you know?
Some even in full-time service
have a hard time with it
because they had a rough family background
and they may feel that they’re worthless.
Mary is a case in point.
I’m going to call her Mary.
Now, Mary’s father was so violent
that at times Mary, her mom, and her siblings
had to get up in the middle of the night
and run for their lives.
And to the neighbors,
they were “that” family.
To make it worse, they were poor.
So all this made Mary feel worthless
—until—
until the day when she started studying
with the Witnesses.
She developed
her own relationship with Jehovah,
and she accepted him as her Father.
And today, Mary is a pioneer.
How does she feel about her life?
Here’s what she wrote:
“Jehovah is constantly looking for those
who want a friendship with him.”
And here’s a touching point:
“He’s even looking
into the hearts of children.”
Isn’t that nice?
Now, there are two lessons here.
As Heman’s example shows,
our family background
doesn’t define who we are.
Jehovah will deal with us as individuals.
And a second example,
one for the elders, is be like Jehovah.
Treat each member
of the family as an individual.
Don’t lump them all in together.
Now to our second point:
We can make our Bible reading more enjoyable
if we try to fill in the blanks.
And that’s something
that our Bible dramas do.
They fill in the blanks for us.
Now let’s illustrate:
Let’s consider the example
of Queen Esther and the king’s son.
Now, you remember the story.
King Ahasuerus,
who is understood to be Xerxes I,
was displeased with Queen Vashti,
and he decided he was going to replace her.
So a call went out
into the whole Persian Empire
for the most beautiful women
to be brought to the palace,
and Esther was among them.
Now, the women were placed
under the care of a man named Hegai,
and his job was
to get them ready to meet the king.
Well, when we read Esther 2:9,
we smell trouble.
Let’s read it,
and you see if you can figure out
what trouble is looming here
—Esther 2:9.
Remember, we’re trying to fill in the blanks.
We’re trying to imagine.
“Now the young woman [Esther]
“was pleasing to him [Hegai]
and won his favor.”
Now, this is a competition.
Keep that in mind.
This is a competition.
“So he promptly arranged
for her beauty treatments
and her [her] diet.”
Wait a minute.
That’s another detail
we’ll have to pursue sometime.
Esther was Jewish.
She was trying to hide the fact
that she was Jewish,
and there were so many things
the Jews couldn’t eat.
How did she handle that?
But that’s for another day.
Let’s carry on.
And talking about Hegai, it says:
“He assigned to her seven selected
young women from the king’s house.
“He also transferred her
and her young attendants
to the best place in the house of the women.”
Do you smell trouble?
Do you see the problem?
Preferential treatment.
This is a competition.
There’s probably a lot of jealousy
going on among the candidates.
And now Hegai
is doing everything in his power
to help Esther to win the king’s heart.
How do you suppose that went down?
It could have led to big trouble.
And here’s another factor.
What about the king’s wives?
Now, there was only one queen,
but Ahasuerus had many wives.
Some say he had 330 wives.
Now, when Vashti was deposed,
who do you suppose
expected to become the queen?
The number two wife.
And yet, instead of going
into the harem and choosing someone,
they went outside the palace
—even to women who didn’t have royal blood.
How do you suppose that went down?
And now think about this:
Some scholars believe that although Vashti
was deposed as queen,
she didn’t leave the palace.
She just couldn’t ever see the king again.
If she was still there,
as some scholars believe,
was she plotting in the background?
This could have been
a very difficult situation.
But Esther 2:15 tells us
something very interesting about Esther.
We’re going to read just the end of verse 15
of Esther chapter 2, at the end of verse 15.
It says: “All the while
“Esther was winning the favor
of everyone who saw her.”
Esther avoided the land mines.
What does that tell us?
She was not only a very beautiful woman,
but she had a beautiful godly personality
—a winning personality.
Well, we said this was
about Esther and the king’s son.
Who is the king’s son—the heir?
Well, we met him
at the convention this past summer.
He was the man
who was so nice to Nehemiah
—Artaxerxes.
And if the historians
have their facts straight,
Artaxerxes would have been
only three years old
when Esther married his father.
Now, history tells us
that as kings of Persia go,
Artaxerxes had a very nice personality.
He was mild, peaceable, kind
—so unlike his father,
who had a terrible temper.
We have to ask,
Did Esther have anything to do
with the pleasant disposition of Artaxerxes?
Maybe she did.
Who knows?
We’re using our imagination.
We’re trying to fill in the blanks.
Well, we haven’t discussed
anything earthshaking here,
and that isn’t the point of this talk.
But if you investigate the details
and fill in the blanks,
it’ll contribute to the pleasure you derive
from reading the Bible.
And if Bible reading
is a pleasant experience for you,
you’ll have no trouble
to arrange a schedule
of daily Bible reading.
Enjoy!